[Music]
what a dilemma it can be a joyride that
flies by too quickly for small talk
connoisseurs or a living nightmare that
never seems to end for claustrophobics
yep
elevators so many ups and downs how
would you like to take a ride on the
world's fastest me neither
but stick around after that and I'll
quiz you want some of the most bizarre
elevators out there first blitz talk
speed in 1857 back when it was rare to
come across a building that was more
than seven stories high the Otis
Elevator Company rocked the world by
installing the first ever commercial
passenger elevator at 488 Broadway in
New York City it moved at an
unimaginable speed for its time forty
feet per minute
that's about only half a mile an hour
doesn't sound like much but remember
this is way before cars came around a
lot has changed since then life's
getting faster buildings are getting
taller and you can no longer impress
anyone with an elevator that travels six
times slower than the average person
walks if it takes forever and a day to
get to their top floor apartment office
or hotel room people will unlikely buy
or rent that property so companies
designing and constructing skyscrapers
must think over their vertical
transportation systems now they clearly
did give it some thought when building
the CTF finance center in Guangzhou
China this is the seventh tallest
building in the world standing proudly
at one thousand seven hundred forty feet
at its highest point the top 16 of it's
111 floors are occupied by the highest
five-star hotel in the world the
Rosewood Guangzhou not to mention what I
will the building is home to the world's
fastest elevator it was open and
recorded in the Guinness World Records
in September 2019 its sky rockets from
the ground to the 95th floor in just 43
seconds think you could handle riding in
an elevator moving at almost highway
speeds of 47 miles per hour
to give you an idea of how special it is
most standard elevators go up to a
maximum of about 20 miles per hour but
don't worry
Hitachi building systems the record
setters designer guarantee its safety
and comfort there are special rollers in
four corners of the cabin to absorb
unpleasant vibrations the brakes are
made of heat-resistant materials that
will ensure it stops smoothly even in an
emergency and you know that feeling when
your ears pop on a plane they thought
about that too and install ear pressure
adjustment technology the elevator only
moves about half as fast on the way down
so it's more like what you're used to in
standard models you'd assume that when
you have the Ferrari of elevators in the
building you wouldn't need to install
anymore
in reality the Guangzhou CTF finance
Center has 93 other low medium and high
speed elevators that move people up and
down in its residential area and office
space
why so many and why do skyscrapers not
just this one need more than one
elevator anyway when is enough when the
building isn't too tall let's say the
whole elevator fills up on the first
floor if there aren't too many stories
back cabin will be big enough for
everyone to get where they need to go
even that guy who's heading to the tenth
floor but what if you have 50 floors or
over a hundred and each floor has dozens
if not hundreds of people working and
living there do you think one lift could
fit everybody no you need to install 10
times more elevators and those take up
space in the building but then again not
all those thousand people actually need
to get to the top floor now do they
that's why most skyscrapers have an
advanced elevator system it's not just
one straight shot from bottom to top but
a complex network with stops and
transfers sort of like the subway some
elevators only travel between the first
and say 15th floor from there
passengers can transfer to another
elevator that takes them to their
destination or another intermediate stop
this way only one or two privileged
cabins actually make it to the very
it helps save tons of space and energy
and it prevents human traffic jams okay
now you know everything you never
expected to learn about the exciting
world of skyscraper elevators now let's
play a game I have a list of some of the
coolest elevators in the world you need
to guess their location in five seconds
don't worry I'll give you options let me
know how many you get write down in the
comments
number one the Gateway Arch the
futuristic elevator pods move up and
down the legs of the 630 foot stainless
steel construction that was designed by
finnish architect Eero Saarinen there's
enough room for five passengers in each
of the eight compartments of the moving
tram
it takes about four minutes to get to
the observation deck at the top and you
can see the arches interior through
glass doors on your way there so do you
think this architectural masterpiece is
in Finland Singapore or the United
States the Gateway to the West is the
biggest arch in the world and it's the
tallest monument in the USA you can ride
one of those pods if you head to st.
Louis Missouri
[Music]
number two the bay long elevator the
name of this elevator that reaches a
height of one thousand seventy feet on
the side of a cliff translates as the
hundred dragons elevator it was opened
in 2002 and you can spot fantastic views
through its glass doors
it might even remind you of an iconic
sci-fi fantasy movie shot there is it in
India China or the Philippines the
correct answer is China the bay long
elevator is in the Hunan province as for
that movie did you recognize Avatar
three Aquadome would you like to travel
between floors in the middle of an
eighty two-foot tall cylindrical
aquarium full of 260 thousand gallons of
water and 1,500 fish well if you have
any worries about the fishies they get
plenty of food almost 20 pounds a day
and a team of divers cleans of the tank
daily here's a hint you can find it in a
big-name hotel in a very famous European
capital just don't forget to check out
the historic Nicolai quarter while
you're there do you think its France
Germany or Russia
the beautiful aqua dome is one of the
sites in Berlin Germany for the Falkirk
wheel the Falkirk wheel is the only
rotating boat elevator in the world
lifting vessels 79 feet from one canal
into another imagine being in a boat and
an elevator at the same time what
country should you book a trip to if you
want to see this engineering masterpiece
Australia Venezuela or Scotland go to
Scotland if you played to see the
Falkirk wheel number 5 elevador lacerda
this one isn't just an elevator but
allege it means of transportation
connecting the lower city to the upper
one it transports over 30,000 people a
day traveling to a height of 236 feet in
38 seconds now where is it
Argentina Brazil or Portugal
[Music]
the correct answer is Brazil Lacerta
elevator is a famous site in the city of
Salvador six Sky View Ericsson Globe at
279 feet tall and 361 feet in diameter
Ericsson Globe or just globin if you're
a local is the largest spherical
building in the world you can see a
concert or sports game inside probably
hockey and take a ride in the glass
elevators on the outside you'll have
enough time to enjoy the city views
given that a ride up in one of the lifts
takes 20 minutes so can you guess which
country is home to the Ericsson Globe is
it Sweden Iceland or Canada it's Sweden
more specifically you can check it out
in the capital city of Stockholm hey how
many did you get right ah so many ups
and downs
finally elevators even go too fast these
days to finish your elevator talk that's
the short speech you have in your pocket
all about yourself that you have ready
to pounce on a contact you want to meet
the speech is only supposed to last as
long as an elevator ride like two
minutes you better cut that down to 30
seconds hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life